Hi, I'm Destin
welcome back to Smarter Every Day.
This is my column drill.
Of all things that people could send to Mars
on a nuclear-powered robot,
a drill was one of the most important things we sent.
And the reason we did this,
think about this.
This is the block and you have seen tree rings right?
If we drill in this block,
and then analyze the curls coming out of that hole,
because of the growth rings we could go back in time and understand
what all happened in this block when the tree was younger, right?
That is exactly why they sent a drill to Mars.
We want to understand if there were organic molecules
in the rocks of Mars when they were formed.
But to do that you have to drill under the surface
and then analyze the powder.
But every article I've ever read about the drill
and how they analyze the powder
does not really satisfy me.
So today at Smarter Every Day
Am I with JPL.
This is Mark Rober .. Crazy!
He's going to give me a tour of what?
- Uh okay.
- You missed your signal.
- Sorry. [laughs]
- We have to start over again, he missed his signal.
- I just realized ..
- This is my buddy Mark.
Do you remember all those beautiful rocket movies where we
the Curiosity Rover dropped to the surface of Mars
with these beautiful rocket cranes?
Yes, he helped to work on that.
But more importantly, he owes me a bit more
so I asked him if he could introduce me to the
people behind the drill on the robber.
I wanted to understand exactly how this thing works.
- So we're going to the Mars yard,
which is in fact a simulation of the surface of Mars.
- Yes, look at both sides before crossing the street to Mars.
- Looks .. Mars!
- So this is the Curiosity garage?
- Yes, so they bring it out here in the garden
You can see the tracks here.
But then when they only work on something inside
they bring it back into the barn.
- Wow. Oh man so this is the only one?
Is this one of a kind?
- It's one of a kind.
The only one on the planet earth.
- I think it's two of a kind.
I am Destin, what is your name?
Megan.
- Can I shake your hand from here?
Nice to meet you Megan.
You run the test?
- I'm turning it now, yes.
- That's pretty great.
He did not let you talk,
but I want to talk to you, but there is a robber between us.
This duplicate of the Curiosity rover exists
allowing scientists and engineers software
and can test difficult maneuvers without risking damage
to the real hardware.
Okay, we decided to stop rummaging
and Megan is going to tell us what the instruments are.
You know all the instruments right?
- I know a lot about the drill and the Chimra because I tested them.
- Yes?
- So this is kind of the end of the drill here.
- Can I walk there?
- You can come here.
- I will. So you slipped on it, right?
- I slipped it.
- To the earth, okay.
- And so this what you see here
we call Chimra,
I have no idea what that acronym is.
- Actually, it's the instrument belt?
- This is the sample processing.
- Okay, I really have to apologize now,
because I started to become so enthusiastic
because I was in the room with the robber,
that I forgot that I was making a YouTube video.
And I started asking questions and they were
great questions, and then they let me do an assignment
on the mast, and I moved it around.
It was incredible.
Anyway, I went back and I tried to summarize it
everything I learned while I was offline in this recording.
I'm very sorry.
This is therefore the most important mast, the RSM.
That stands for what?
- Remote Sensing Mast.
- Okay and there are two sensors on the side here
and these are both for the weather.
One of them on Mars is not working right now.
Because it did not work at the landing anyway?
Okay so this is the arm here that is used to
collecting monsters on Mars,
and uses Megan's drill, anyway,
- The official name.
- The official name. So that's the drill,
and it must have enough life to live up to our primary
targets on Mars, and after that does not go well for whatever reason
if you want some whipped cream on the cake then you have
two extra drills down here that you
can switch autonomously.
- Correct.
- And that would be the first time ever that was done on another planet.
And it's going to happen because you worked on it anyway?
- I want it to happen.
It would be really great to see.
- Excellent. So here,
looking at the monsters.
So before we decide which samples we are going to analyze by doing them in this little hole here
can we put the samples on the plate,
we can measure their size, both by the surfaces there on the checkerboard
or by dropping it through that funnel right?
- Right.
- And if we do that,
we can, if it meets the criteria, we can
do it and analyze it in this hole.
And after analyzing it you dump it overboard.
- Yeah.
- Am I correct?
- You are a good teacher.
Megan is clearly a genius,
but there were still a few questions that I had.
I wanted to understand the exact interaction
between drill and rock.
That's why I came to see Ryan.
What is your title?
- Drill system engineer.
- So what is this here?
What do you have?
- This is a drilling assembly.
- OK.
- This is not just our drill,
that, if you look closely, this is a stone drill,
it is not like the sharp bits you have on
your hand drill.
It is more of a chisel and it is designed for impact drilling.
- OK. So how does it work?
- So first we put our drill,
we put our drill stabilizers against the rock
to ensure that we have a nice stable configuration.
Then we drop down until we hit the rock.
- OK.
- We start drilling with a process called begingat.
So if you can imagine, if we are on a rock and not perfectly aligned
and there are all these surface properties,
little holes on the rock,
the drill wants to walk around
Imagine if you were trying to cut metal
usually you put a small pilot hole before you start drilling.
- Not to break the drill,
Is that the same reason you do that here?
- Yes, so we have a process called begingat
it starts the first 5 mm of our hole
and actually what we do is chisel small holes to carve out an asterisk shape.
[hammer drill sound]
Then we drill that out and we repeat that process
as often as necessary to go 5 mm deep.
Then we have a good starting point for the rest of our drilling.
[hammer drill sound]
It is not the rotation that really cuts the rock
it is really the hammering action.
[hammer drill]
Like a jackhammer and then the rotation that we do is mainly
for getting the powder through the sheath.
We continuously drill until we remove the drill.
We literally punch the front of it
drill set against the rock.
Before we drill we do a trial,
We drill a little bit, so we can see what the powder will look like
because we are concerned about or as it turns out
that this material is hydrated and it
somewhat sticky, it can clog our drilling assembly.
- Is it, on Mars?
- It is possible, and that is one of the interesting things
scientific findings recently is that there is a water cycle,
an active water cycle near the surface of Mars
even at Gale Krater.
- Do you have one of the drills outside the drill head?
- Not with me here, but I can show you one on my desk
if you are interested in what that looks like.
I have a 3D printed model of this where the drill itself is made of metal, but the rest
the housing is transparent plastic, so you can see through it.
- Wow, can we do that?
- Yes.
- So what you're drilling, you're swallowing the material in here anyway,
this housing?
- Exactly. Yes in the first of our two chambers in the drilling assembly.
So we have two rooms in the drill assembly specifically
so it gives us some freedom to the robot arm
move around without worrying about spilling
material through the exit tube before we are finished
to transfer it.
So once we get it in the first room it is in that first room
until we transfer it through this little slot that you can see here.
- Yes.
- So we transfer it through that slot.
We use percussion to shake things up
and we use gravity to determine which direction the stuff goes.
- So that's the mass flow that you were talking about.
- Yes.
- Can I pretend to be the robotic arm for a second?
- Please.
- Yes, okay so you've got that slot,
and so you want to keep that slot down
so you want to start drilling,
and then you pick it up and as long as that slot to
above is you holding all your sample particles?
- That's right.
- Okay and so on that point
when you have it where you have to go then you can
turning it and then you dump it through that little slit there
in the next room?
No wait back this way right?
- That's right.
- Okay, so you kind of ..
- Through the slot to the second room.
- Slips almost, almost in your hand like this, right?
No, you turn again and it goes out of that opening.
- That's right.
Gravity operations by the Robot Arm and the vibrations generated by the Drill mechanism are used to transfer the sample to the CHIMRA.
- Okay, so we've drilled our rock and now we've got the powder
on the inside of the rock.
In a very specific circumstance when you find a special rock
and you think you even have organic molecules
on the inside of that rock, you have to calibrate your instruments.
To do this, JPL was pretty smart.
They put these cans on the front of the rover
that are only used in certain circumstances.
I let Megan explain what they are for.
So what is called OCM in these cans
What is Organic Control Material?
- Yeah that's right.
- Okay and so the idea is that you have a known monster that you can test
on Mars, so you can ensure that your sensors work correctly.
- Right.
- And that is basically the same as the color palette there
so you can check that your cameras work correctly,
This is the same for your sensors
to see if there is life on Mars.
- Right, for the instruments. For whatever scientific instrument they want.
- So you say that's organic,
so are those pieces that were alive?
- If you are looking for organic substances on Mars
and you think you found it
you want to forward something that does not contain organic substances
and analyze and make sure you do not see it,
and again test the thing that has organic substances.
- Ohh. So what you say is,
An Organic Control Material is basically just like
eating a cräcker what the peculiar wine tasting boys do,
- For cleaning the ..
- To clean the palate.
Come on my level here. [laughs]
So that's what that is.
This is actually a number of cräckers that you eat
between your monsters to make sure you know what's going on.
Excellent.
The next time you see a perfect borehole
in the surface of Mars,
do not think about it, you know, a column drill
or a percussion drill.
Think of a carefully executed group of maneuvers
specially designed to obtain dust.
It goes like this.
You put the drill in,
you take out the drill.
and you get the dust out completely.
You do the mass transfer by turning CHIMRA over,
and that's how you dump the dust out.
I've just ruined the Hokey Pokey for the rest of your life.
Gladly done, and I invented that and it's great.
YES!
I hope you enjoyed this episode of Smarter Every Day,
it was offered to you by audible.com.
Audible as you know is really a cool way
where you can listen to audiobooks on your phone.
Yes you are smart people, you know where this is going.
This is my audible.com library and here at the top of the list,
yep you guessed it,
The Martian by Andy Weir.
I know there's a movie out,
but if you have not experienced the book
you really have to do that.
You can get any audiobook you want for free
at audible.com/smarter.
I recommend The Martian, because there is much more science in the book
then that there was in the movie you probably already watched.
if you sit here watching a ten minute video about drilling on Mars.
Anyway, I am Destin.
Thank you so much for even considering viewing
ten minutes of video on the internet.
I know that's a long time.
Anyway, please consider subscribing if this has added value to your life.
Please consider supporting the sponsor.
If not, nothing bad.
I appreciate you.
I'm Destin,
you become Smarter Every Day.
Another good one. Bye.
It crosses borders. [Whispers] It crosses borders. Does it go beyond the limits to ask if I can high-fade the rover?
- Umm ... you can not do that by ESD.
- Can I .. Okay you're grounded right?
- So I grounded. We have..
- Can I high-fiven you, that's like the rover high-fiven
Because you are at the same electrical potential.
Can we do this?
No?
- That is such a strange question.
[laughs]
- Yes!
[whispers] Megan we are like friends now. It took about 20 minutes. We are best friends.
She is about to give me an assignment.